name origins:

Niviok
	I created a list of possible names by listening to Spanish reggaetone music and writing down cool sounds. Since I don't know Spanish, most of the sounds I seemed to heard were actually original. Then I googled each word and wrote down how many hits each got. Then I removed all the words that got too many hits. "Niviok" was the only name from the remaining list that I used.

Fujin
	This representation is intended to be more terse than Ivan, sacrificing clarity for compactness. Fujin is a slender character in Final Fantasy VIII who often speaks using one-to-three words. I like to think of Fujin as male, so I usually use gender neutral terms when refering to Fujin.

Ivan
	This representation is intended to be easier to read and understand than Fujin, sacrificing compactness for clarity. Ivan is a large muscular character in Digimon Savers who often speaks out loud what he's thinking, usually when thinking about his love interest.

Desible
	I original planned to create a website devoted to creating a programming language as a community, instead of just creating a programming language myself. The original name of Niviok was "Desal", from "design at large". All the representations had names derived from "Desal", like "Dextr" (Desal Text Representation), "Desual" (Desal Visual Representation), and "Desexp" (Desal S-Expressions). "Desible" comes from "Desal" and the "extensible" in "eXtensible Markup Language" (XML). When I decided to stop using the name "Desal" and the names based on it, I kept using "Desible" just because I really like it.

Mitsuka
	For far too long source code has been represented using only plain ugly monospaced text. This representation is intended to be beatiful, sexy, and a bit crazy. After all, never before has any visual language ever really caught on. Mitsuka is an extremely sexy big-chested teacher from DearS who is always touching herself, dressing way too sexily, saying sexual things, and moaning orgasmically. Mitsuka is gorgeous and way over the top.

Acrid
	This implementation is written in C#, and "acrid" can be a synonym for "sharp". I don't think C# is a bad language, but I'm not exactly in love with it.

Toy
	S-Expressions representation of Niviok. Because S-Expressions come from the Lisp family of toy languages.

